Welcome to JW Broadcasting for February 2023.
In January's program, we watched part one of the annual meeting.
At the live event, there was an air of excitement.
The audience was eagerly awaiting what would be announced next.
And now that same excitement can be shared with all of you.
Please enjoy.
Well, we always enjoy hearing from our dear brother heard.
So what's he going to talk to us about today?
Well, he's going to talk on the theme,
Are you a joyful person?
Brother heard, please.
When you think of your brain,
view it as a box that contains all sorts of information.
Good and bad.
When you think of your heart,
view it as a bottle that contains only good information.
Now listen to this vintage old 1950s joy diswashing liquid soap commercial.
Joy in a bottle beats anything in a box.
True joy from the heart beats a head full of knowledge.
What about it?
Are you a joyful person?
What good is it?
Well, the Bible says a joyful heart makes for a cheerful countenance.
And it goes on to say a heart that is joyful does good to the body.
How does this work?
At times, your heart will make you smile when your body is in pain.
For example, you pass another person,
and he or she says,
how are you?
You smile and say, good.
Your back, feet, and legs are killing you.
But your heart won't let you give a negative answer.
There are other more important reasons to be joyful.
Here's one.
Jehovah is a joyful person.
At 1 Timothy chapter 1 and verse 11,
he is called the happy God.
Now, a synonym is the joyful God.
He rejoices in his work.
Well, how do we know that?
Well, look at the 104th Psalm and verse 31.
The glory of Jehovah will last forever.
Jehovah will rejoice in his works.
Jehovah will rejoice in his work.
Synonyms are having joy or delight in his works.
Now, secondly, Jesus, too, is a happy worker.
At 1 Timothy chapter 6 and verse 14 and 15,
he's called the happy potentate.
Potentate is a powerful ruler, yet he is happy.
It was prophesied of him at Psalm 40 verse 8.
To do your will, oh my God, is my delight.
Now, this means to please greatly.
According to John chapter 4 and verse 34,
the doing of God's work was food for him.
It energized him and sustained him.
Doing God's will was like butter on his bread and milk in his glass.
Jehovah wants us to rejoice in our work.
Read with me, please.
Ecclesiastes chapter 5 and verse 19.
Also, when the true God gives a man riches and material possessions
along with the ability to enjoy them,
take his reward and rejoice in his hard work.
This is the gift of God.
Housewives and mothers, rejoice in your work.
Husbands and fathers, rejoice in your work.
Single men and women, rejoice in your work.
Whittles and whittlers, rejoice in your work.
Oh, folks, rejoice in whatever you're able to do.
Just call it work.
Jehovah wants us to be joyful.
Do to run into chapter 16 and verse 15 comments this way.
Jehovah, your God will bless all that you do
and you will become nothing but joyful.
The best fathers are happy fathers.
The best husbands are happy husbands.
The best mothers are happy mothers.
The best children are obedient children.
Oops, I mean our happy children.
Singing up building songs produces joy.
Levite males sang at the temple.
However, other singers and women are spoken of and scripture.
At Acts 16, verse 25, it says,
but about the middle of the night,
Paul and Silas were praying and praising God with song
and the prisoners were listening to them.
Slaves used to sing while working.
They did this to pass the time and lift their spirits to the highest joy.
They sang out their struggle,
weariness, loneliness, sorrow, hope,
and determination for a better life.
You can sing in the shower.
Just make sure no one's listening.
Count your blessings.
Beath in the joy that they bring you.
Joy is an aspect of God's Holy Spirit.
It is the second of the nine aspects
mentioned in Galatians chapter 5 and verse 22.
Pray dearly for God's Holy Spirit to be with you in your life.
Read with me, Daniel chapter 6 and verses 10 and 11.
But as soon as Daniel knew that the decree had been signed,
he went to his house,
which had the windows of his roof chamber open towards Jerusalem.
And three times a day,
he got down on his knees and prayed
and offered praise before his God,
as he had regularly done prior to this.
At that time, those men burst in and found Daniel petitioning
and pleading for a favor before his God.
My wife Gloria and I used to get down on our knees
to pray before going to bed.
Now that we're old, we just sit on the side of the bed and pray.
If we get down, we can't get up.
Keep in mind that prayer will produce in you joy.
You're not alone. Jehovah is with you.
He is never far away.
At Acts 1727, Paul told some in Athens,
he is not far off from each one of us.
He can see you and hear you from heaven,
wherever heaven is located.
Never should we feel that we are alone.
Each minute of every day,
Jehovah is right beside us,
looking for opportunities to help us.
Talk to him regularly.
Ask him to give you joy.
Angels two are joyful.
Luke chapter 15, verse 10 says that they're joyful.
Please look at it as we read it.
In the same way, I tell you,
joy arises among the angels of God
over one sinner who repents.
What do you think?
Are you a joyful person?
Try to remember the box.
Put your mind to it.
And the bottle.
Put your heart into it.
Copy as best you can those who are joyful.
Jehovah.
Jesus.
The angels.
Your spiritual brothers and sisters.
Pray daily for a joyful countenance.
A warm smile does good to the body.
One secular song makes this point.
I won't sing it.
I'll just say it.
Light up your face with gladness.
Hide every trace of sadness.
Although a tear may be ever so near,
that's the time you must keep on trying.
Smile.
What's the use of crying?
You'll find that life is still worthwhile.
If you just smile.
If you are a joyful person,
thank Jehovah.
If you are lacking joy, work on being more joyful.
Remember, Jehovah wants you to be nothing but joyful.
Let's make it our aim to please him with joy.
Isn't that delightful?
Thank you very much, Sam.
That was just wonderful.
Now we're going to watch two videos.
The first one is going to bring us up to date
with the instruction projects that were finished
just before the COVID began.
But then it's also going to tell us the work that was done
during the COVID outbreak.
Our brothers did not stop working during the outbreak.
And they were very resourceful.
They did a lot of good things.
So let's watch this video.
It's going to be very encouraging.
At Isaiah 40 verses four and five,
Jehovah says he would remove seemingly insurmountable obstacles
so the Jews could return to Jerusalem.
The account says, let every valley be raised up
and every mountain and hill be made low.
The rough ground must become level
and the rugged ground of valley plain.
The glory of Jehovah will be revealed
and all flesh will see it together
for the mouth of Jehovah has spoken.
This inspiring prophecy was initially fulfilled
in 537 BCE.
There is nothing that can stand in the way
of what Jehovah wants accomplished.
In this report,
we will seek clear evidence of Jehovah's support
on theocratic projects today,
despite a pandemic,
supply chain shortages,
and other challenges.
For example,
the February 2020 announcement featured
in the JW newsroom
informed us that the Cameroon Branch Relocation Project
finished shortly before the outbreak of COVID-19.
Just in time,
the Bethel family had a home
where they could safely shelter in place during the pandemic.
And still care for the Kingdom work
and more than 48,000 publishers
in that branch territory.
The Argentina Bethel family also moved
into their new branch facility in Buenos Aires,
shortly thereafter.
The move, which was organized in compliance
with COVID-19 safety protocols,
began in July 2021.
The Bethel family saw numerous examples
of Jehovah leveling out
overwhelming challenges during the pandemic.
Successful completion of the new branch facilities
in the midst of that turmoil
has already given a great witness to the community.
It has allowed the Bethel family to focus on caring
for close to 170,000 publishers
in that branch territory.
What a blessing to have these new facilities
to support the Kingdom Preaching Work.
What about projects happening right now?
Listen closely,
as we hear updates from brothers in Italy,
Congo, and Angola.
The Italy branch is relocating its facilities
to the city of Bologna in Northern Italy,
which is located about 370 kilometers
or 230 miles from Rome.
Initially,
the construction project committee
wanted to use her brothers and sisters as volunteers.
However, at a certain point,
it was decided to rely on an outside development company,
both for the design and renovation
of the office building that was purchased,
as well as for the design and construction
of the residential buildings.
When this decision was made,
we did not imagine that a few months afterwards,
we would not be able to use our volunteers.
Because at the beginning of 2020,
COVID-19 struck Northern Italy,
including the city of Bologna.
As a consequence,
the government suspended activities,
including construction.
After about one month,
they lifted the restrictions.
And as a result,
we could get back in touch with the companies
and continue the work,
while respecting government protocol
and direction from our organization.
Thanks to Jehovah's direction,
despite the pandemic,
we are happy to see how this project
is moving forward much faster than we expected.
And we look forward to being able to move
into these new buildings by the end of 2024.
In 2012,
we had a little of 168,000 publishers
in our branch territory.
By the end of 2021,
the total number of publishers
grew to more than 209,000 publishers.
Because it was in practical
to expand the branch facility in Kinchasa,
we looked for a property
that could care for the immediate
and future needs of the branch.
We purchased property
in the country's second largest city,
Lubumbashi,
where a developer was already building housing
and office units.
The developer already had the zoning,
permits,
and completed design packages.
This saved much time
and allowed the projects to move ahead
with minimal disruption,
even during the pandemic.
And we were happy for that.
For the internal work of the new offices,
we needed a contractor
who could design
and install to the standards of our organization,
and within the project budget.
We knew this would be hard to find in Congo,
and even harder,
with the limitations of the pandemic.
One of the suppliers
that we use for food
and relief supplies in the area,
mentioned to us that
they have a partner company
who specializes in construction
and is newly active in the country.
We didn't expect that the answer
to this challenge would come
from this unusual direction.
But we were surprised to find that
they did in fact qualify
to meet the high standards
and expectations of such a branch project.
As the relationship grew,
we saw fine collaboration
between our teams,
and they continue to work along with us
now as the project expands.
We truly have seen
Jehovah's moving out
the path for this project.
We have already started moving
some Bethelites to this new site
and look forward to the project's completion
in mid-2024.
In December 2021,
a building was purchased
that will provide additional rooms
and offices for the Bethel family
at our branch.
This building is located
about a 10-minute walk
from the current Bethel facility.
Because of the restrictions
imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic,
the entire process
for the acquisition of this building,
even including the verification
of the legal aspects
had to be done by video conference.
During the last week
of the negotiation process,
when there were just five days remaining
to sign the purchase and sale agreement,
and during a stage
in which the negotiation team
from the branch in the seller
had already agreed on the purchase
and sale price,
we discovered that the structure
of the building needed some repairs
and reinforcements in some areas.
How did the team negotiating the purchase
handle this obstacle?
The seller was asked to take
responsibility for the repairs
and to reinforce the building structure,
closely following the engineering details
that would be provided
by the branch.
After several prayers
by the branch's negotiation team,
the seller accepted the responsibility
and even paid
for all the expenses involved
in this repair.
The repair was completed
and shortly after,
the work to completely renovate the building
began.
We look forward to seeing some
of the Bethel family move
into this new building
in early 2024.
In addition to these
new branch facilities,
we also have many other needs
to fill.
For example, in order to train
brothers and sisters to carry out
the preaching and teaching work,
there continues to be a need
for theocratic school facilities.
In Madagascar,
the branch hosted classes
at Bethel because they didn't
have any other suitable facilities.
Well, in June 2021,
they finished construction
of a new school facility
and will now be able
to schedule up to four classes
there each year.
Currently, there are
over 40 existing school facilities
and we have around 20 active
school facility projects
at various stages of development.
What about facilities
to support the growing
media production of the organization?
We're happy to report
that we have finished the studio projects
in South Africa and
Australasia branches.
In Australasia,
that includes the back lot
that is used for the good news
according to Jesus' video series.
Soon, if Jehovah wills,
we will begin construction
on the new site in Ramippo, New York.
We look forward to seeing
how Jehovah uses this facility
to care for the needs of his people.
It is clear
that neither the pandemic
nor ongoing turmoil
in this world has been able
to stop theocratic building projects.
And as world conditions continue to deteriorate,
we are confident
that the words of Isaiah 44 and 5
will be true for us.
Yes, Jehovah will help us overcome
any mountain-like obstacles
that we face.
We earnestly pray
for Jehovah to bless these
and future building projects.
And we thank you,
dear brothers and sisters,
for supporting them
by means of your prayers,
skills, time,
and resources.
May all praise and glory
go to our great God, Jehovah,
who continues
to clear the way for us.
Jehovah's hand is never short.
Well, the next part
is a video
entitled Patterson
Visitor Center Update.
Try saying that fast three times.
That was a mouthful.
Patterson Visitor Center Update.
This is about more than just
a visitor center
where people can come
to wait their turn to tour Bethel.
You're going to see that
there are some surprises waiting for us
in this visitor center.
Let's watch.
Planning for the new Patterson Visitor Center
began in 2018.
A project development group
was formed with a goal
of starting construction,
but unforeseen challenges
were about to occur.
In March of 2020,
an outbreak of COVID-19 in the New York
area caused Bethel to go
into a full lockdown.
How did the design group
siege Jehovah's blessing on the project
during this unprecedented time?
Well, when Bethel locked down
and suspended in-person meetings,
so did the town of Patterson.
This created a series
challenge for us to obtain
the necessary approvals
and to keep the project moving forward.
So with a threat of falling
months behind,
we had to rely on Jehovah
and alter our approach.
So a local elder was given
permission to attend the town
and opened up.
He allowed us as a design team
to make a presentation effectively
but remotely.
We saw Jehovah's hand
and his blessing on this entire arrangement.
So through months of meetings,
we were able to get the approvals needed
and then get a building permit
to begin construction
all of this taking place
during the lockdown.
Following all the local guidelines,
the branch found a way
to properly
so they could work on the project.
Jehovah caused many volunteers
to offer themselves willingly
to help.
Here we are building
the Patterson Visitor Center
during a most unique time in history
in the midst of a global pandemic.
The Brotherhood
has demonstrated a heart for the work.
Through contributions,
brothers and sisters offering their skills,
some of which are quite unique.
It's so encouraging to see
how Jehovah has come to our aid
with supply issues
and how Bethel departments
have cooperated and provided
skilled people to help us.
It's been so encouraging.
All involved have seen Jehovah's hand
guiding the way through these
challenging circumstances.
But some may wonder,
at a time when guests are not allowed
on Bethel property,
why is this Visitor Center so important
to Jehovah?
The physical buildings at Bethel
are attractive.
But what's more valuable to Jehovah
is what happens inside.
It's the spiritual gift that he has
in store for all who come to visit
that is so important.
The Patterson Visitor Center
is designed to be an immersive
theocratic experience
for everyone.
The Patterson Visitor Center
will feature three museums
in this way.
Our feature museum
will be a first-century Bible village.
The objective
is to educate visitors
about what life was like
in the first century.
And thereby, bring Bible accounts
to life.
You will get a sense of what things
were like when Jesus walked the earth.
Since the Israelites
lived off the land,
the experience begins
with an overview of the annual crop
cycles that form the core
of so much of their daily activities.
Key agricultural tasks,
such as threshing, winnowing
and grinding grain,
will be illustrated
with interactive displays.
We know you will find the exhibit components
like the functioning olive press
and wine press,
very interesting and informative.
The next stop
will be a typical first-century market.
Here you will see some
of the food and goods
that would have been available
depending on the season of the year.
We next invite you
into the residence
and workshop spaces
of a typical first-century
Israelite family.
The manger,
carpentry shop,
weaving and fabric-dying displays
will illustrate a number
of Israelite activities.
The resident's courtyard area
will show other regular home
tasks like grain grinding
and basket making.
We next invite you
into a typical Israelite home
and out onto a rooftop
overlooking the rest of the village.
Before you leave the residences,
you will also see an upper room
that would have been
in some of the Israelite homes.
The next area
of the first-century
Bible village that you can explore
is the synagogue,
which was the center of worship
and study in the Jewish community.
Next, a functioning
pottery wheel in kiln
will illustrate how pottery was made.
The last stop
will take you to a lake side
where you will be able to board
a first-century fishing boat
similar to the one
that Jesus and His disciples used.
Here you can learn
what was involved in commercial fishing.
This
and so much more
is waiting for you
at the New Patterson Visitor Center.
We can't wait for you to come
and see the beautiful
spiritual gift
that is waiting for you.
The New Visitor Center
and Museum are on course
to be completed in the fall of 2023.
When will guests be able
to come back to Bethleh
and tour the new facility?
We are going to have to wait and see.
But one thing is for sure,
when the doors finally
do open, anyone who makes
the effort to come
will receive a spiritual gift from Jehovah.
The touring experience
will prove to be a spiritual
encouragement to the
worldwide brotherhood
and promote pure worship
to Jehovah's praise and honor
in a very unique way.
It will certainly be
a must see.
Well, we've seen the blessings on this project
and really all the people working hard on it.
The facility is going to benefit
thousands of future visitors.
It's because
all of us, either now
or in the new world,
need to be taught about the life
and ministry of Jesus.
For this reason, we're convinced
of Jehovah's blessing on the project
and his desire to have this facility built.
It's Jehovah's desire that people
come to his house and be refreshed
and educated.
It is our prayer
that this new and thrilling
visitors center will accomplish that.
Yes, we'll come.
They will be up built
and they will draw closer
to Jehovah God.
I'm sure we can hardly wait to go through
that new visitor center. I know
I can hardly wait.
Now we're going to enjoy two talks on very
encouraging themes.
The first is by brother Kenneth Cook,
his subject,
the earth that will endure forever.
Brother Cook, please.
In the revelation presented to the Apostle John,
Jesus pointed ahead many centuries to the time
when Jehovah brings an end to those
who oppose his kingdom.
At Revelation 11 and verse 18,
it speaks of such opposers
as those ruining the earth.
In its entirety,
the verse says this,
Revelation 11 verse 18.
But the nations became
wrathful,
and your own wrath came,
and the appointed time came
for the dead to be judged,
and to reward your slaves,
the prophets,
and the holy ones,
and those fearing your name,
the small and the great,
ruining the earth.
This verse assures us
that Jehovah is going to stop
the ruining of the earth.
But is it only man's
pollution of the earth,
and the misuse of its resources
that is being spoken of here,
or is there more to it?
To answer those questions,
here are four main points
that we will consider.
What is the earth
as spoken of in God's word?
To what ruining of it,
does Revelation 11 and 18 refer?
When will Jehovah act to stop it?
And what is the earth
that will endure forever?
So to start,
what is meant by earth?
To answer that question,
we'll look at the planet
and the people.
Why do we include the people?
Because earth
like some other expressions
in God's word,
has more than one basic meaning.
Consider the word heaven.
Heaven has the sense
of that which is higher lofty,
and it can refer to a number of things.
For example,
at Genesis 27, verse 28,
we read of Isaac's blessing
for Jacob.
He told him in part,
may the true God give you
the do's of the heavens.
The do's of the heavens.
Here, heavens has the meaning
of literal sky.
True?
But now compare Daniel chapter 4 and verse 26.
In this verse,
we read that Daniel interprets
Nebuchadnezzar's dream
regarding the great tree,
and he says to him,
your kingdom will be yours again,
after you come to know
that the heavens are ruling.
Clearly,
this is not the literal sky, is it?
But it has reference
to Jehovah's sovereignty.
Likewise,
in the Bible, the word earth
can have more than one meaning.
First,
let's look at the planet.
Unlike the planets
that have been named
after false gods,
Genesis chapter 1 tells us
that Jehovah named this planet Earth.
As for the false labeling
of the other planets,
we can be certain that those
disgusting names will soon be gone.
But as for the earth,
Jehovah leaves us in no doubt
about its future.
It was created
to last forever.
Ecclesiastes chapter 1 and verse 4 states
that although generations
of people at this time
come and go,
the earth it says that is the planet
remains forever.
Psalm 104 verse 5 adds
that it will not be moved from its place
forever and ever.
So then the planet earth
will never be destroyed.
God's purpose for it
will be fulfilled.
What is that purpose?
God's purpose
is for the earth to be inhabited
by faithful humans
in perfection
and happiness
with everlasting life.
That brings us to the people
those for whom the earth
was made.
You can hardly mention one
without the other, right?
For instance, many scriptures
refer to people when speaking
of the earth.
Here are some examples.
Genesis 111.
Now all the earth
continued to be of one language.
At Genesis 24 and verse 3,
Abraham refers to Jehovah
the God of the earth,
obviously people.
Isaiah 4913,
shout for joy,
you heavens, and rejoice
you earth.
And Revelation 192 speaks
of false religion
as the great prostitute
who corrupted the earth
with her sexual immorality.
Clearly, those verses
refer to humans who can speak
who can worship,
and who can be corrupted
by sexual immorality.
Up to this point,
we've looked at the earth
then as a planet.
We have reviewed God's purpose
for it, and we have considered
how the word earth
relates to the people on it.
Now let's consider the question
to what ruining
does Revelation 1118 refer
to the planet,
the people, or both?
First, the planet.
Jehovah hates to see the earth
being ruined today as it is,
and we can be certain
that he hates the pollution,
the damage to the earth's climate,
the misuse of its resources,
and the devastation
of human wars.
Jehovah cares for what he has made.
After making the earth,
he said that it was good.
We can read about it.
In chapter 1 and 2,
imagine Jehovah's happiness.
This special planet
was to be a gift.
Psalm 115 and verse 16 states
that the earth he has given
to the sons of men.
So then, what about the people?
Does Jehovah's discuss
that the ruining of the earth
apply to the ruining
of mankind as well?
Yes.
We can see this in what is stated
at Genesis chapter 6 and verses 11 and 12.
In this setting,
the world of Noah's day
has become ruined in God's eyes.
And as we read the verses,
look for the connection
between the earth
and mankind.
It says, Genesis 6 starting in verse 11,
but the earth had become ruined
in the sight of the true God,
and the earth was filled
with violence.
Yes, God looked upon the earth
and it was ruined.
All flesh had ruined its way
on the earth.
Do you see the connection?
Rather than speaking of just the planet,
the scriptures here linked the ruining
of all flesh or people
with the ruining of the earth.
Likewise, today,
just as mankind is harming the actual planet,
the world under Satan's control
is also ruining all flesh.
In both ways,
the earth is being ruined.
How so?
Along with false religion,
human society in general
is gradually corrupting
everything that Jehovah
has said in place for mankind.
We see it in their
incessant nationalistic wars.
We see it in their racial
hatred and divisiveness.
We see it in their promoting
of abortion.
We see it in their so-called
gay marriage.
We see it in the gender blurring
that the world is promoting.
You don't have to be a man
or a woman they say.
You can be whatever you feel like
or choose to be.
Really?
What does Jehovah say about that?
In the Utteronomy chapter 22 and verse 5,
he told the nation of Israel
that, quote,
a woman must not put on
the clothing of a man.
Nor should a man
wear the clothing of a woman.
For anyone doing so
is detestable
to Jehovah your God.
If that is how the creator
feels about the switching
of clothing,
how much more detestable
he must view the world's attempts
to blur the lines of gender
with false labeling.
Recently,
the World Health Organization
adjusted its view of gender.
It now states that, quote,
there are many genders
existing on a spectrum
from male to female.
It added
that gender identity
exists on a continuum
and that sex is not limited
to male or female.
Again, really?
Talk about an attempt
to tear apart what Jehovah has made.
So then, even government agencies
on a global scale
are getting involved.
And they are critical of anyone
who does not adopt
their warped view.
At Proverbs 19, verse 3,
it explains,
it is a man's own foolishness
that distorts his way
and his heart becomes
outraged against Jehovah.
And going back to marriage,
Jehovah instituted the arrangement
to be a permanent bond
between a man
and a woman.
At Matthew 19, verses 4 and 5,
we read how Jesus
emphasized this
while he was on the earth.
Quoting from Genesis 2.24,
he said this,
have you not read
that the one who created them
male and female
and said, for this reason
a man will leave his father
and his mother
and will stick to his wife
and the two will be one flesh?
He made them male
and female
and the two will be one flesh.
Jehovah's purpose
for humans is clear.
But Satan's world now says
that marriage can be between two men
or two women.
Again, really?
We can be certain
that promoting this corrupt view
is Satan's attempts
part of Satan's attempt
to ruin mankind,
to make them so abhorrent to Jehovah
that he would abandon humans
and his purpose
for mankind in the earth.
But that will never happen.
God's purpose
for mankind and their home
will be fulfilled.
Just like the disgusting names
of the false gods
that humans have given
to the literal planets,
the false labeling
of humankind
and the immorality
will not continue.
For his own namesake
and for those who love him,
Jehovah will bring to ruin
those ruining the earth.
Well, it's one thing
such matters among ourselves.
But what are we doing to help other people?
What are we doing to build
respect for Jehovah's view
of the earth?
Jehovah's view of humankind.
And Jehovah's purpose
for their future.
Well, with a clear conscience,
we can confidently say
that we've not held back
in speaking the truth about such matters.
For example,
here are some of the articles
that honest-hearted ones can read.
For instance,
what does the Bible say about abortion?
Does the Bible comment
on same-sex marriages?
And how can I explain
the Bible's view
of homosexuality?
We should be happy
to have such tools
to help other people.
So then, what is more important
to Jehovah, the literal planet
that people
both are highly valued
and that is why both
will endure forever.
But the people of the earth
are far more important.
Jehovah gave his son
as a ransom for mankind,
not for a planet.
John 3.16 says
that God loved the world so much
that he gave his only begotten son
so that everyone
exercising faith in him
might not be destroyed,
destroyed, but have ever
lasting life.
And of Jesus,
God's master worker,
Proverbs 8 and verse 31,
quotes him as saying,
I rejoiced over his habitable earth
and I was especially fond
of the sons of men.
Knowing this,
what should we continue to do?
What we should kindly
and respectfully help others
to see Jehovah's view
while there is still time?
We must never become ashamed
of the good news.
For it's not just good news about
paradise, it's also good news
about Jehovah's time to
set things right on earth again.
Parents with young children
should take courage
from this fact
as they work hard to protect their children
from Satan's attempts
to ruin their minds and hearts
with immoral thoughts
and false reasoning.
Thankfully, the end
is coming quickly.
Please notice what is said
at Revelation chapter 14
and verses 6 and 7.
And as we read it,
look for what an angel
includes in the good news
that he declares.
It says, in part,
Revelation chapter 14
verses 6 and 7.
It says he had ever
lasting good news to declare
to those who dwell on the earth
to every nation
and tribe and tongue in people.
He was saying in a loud voice,
fear God
and give him glory
because the hour of judgment
by him has arrived.
So worship the one who made the heaven
and the earth
to see and the springs of water.
So then,
what does the angel include
in his message
in his good news
that he is declaring?
Fear God, he said,
and give him glory
because the hour of judgment
by him has arrived.
For those who love what is right
that truly is good news.
And we're happy to include
an angelic message
in what we share with other people.
God's Word assures us
at Acts chapter 17 and verse 31.
That Jehovah has said a day
on which he purposes
to judge the inhabited earth
and righteousness
by means of his Son.
What a relief
and peace that will bring
to those who want to please Jehovah.
Well, in this talk,
we have examined what is meant
when the Bible speaks of the earth.
That is the planet
and the people
for whom it was made.
We have also considered
the fact that the earth
is being ruined in more ways
than just the corrupting
of its environment
and the misuse of its resources.
It goes far beyond that, doesn't it?
Satan and his world
are also attempting
to control this human creation
in every way possible.
But they will fail.
Since Jehovah gave his Son
to save faithful humans
and to restore his purpose,
our next question is
when will it happen?
When will Jehovah bring to ruin
those ruining the earth?
Well, the answer to that question is soon.
Very soon.
The ruining of mankind
and their home will not
be allowed to go on.
Let no one be mistaken about it.
Jehovah is resolved.
He is patient.
He does not desire any
to be destroyed.
But he is determined.
His day is coming.
Second Peter 313 assures us
that there are new heavens
and a new earth that we are awaiting
according to his promise.
That promised new earth
is a new human society
that will worship
and serve the only true God
forever.
Those who persist
in ruining the earth
will not be a part of it.
At Matthew 19, verse 28,
Jesus speaks of this coming change
as a time of recreation.
The study note for that verse
says that recreation means
regeneration or renewal.
It then adds that the recreation is
the time when the rule of Christ
and his co-rulers
will bring to the earth
a renewal of the perfect conditions
enjoyed by the first humans
before they sinned.
That's wonderful
to think about.
The recreation will set things
straight after a failed rebellion.
It will fulfill
Jehovah's purpose
for the earth.
So then what is the earth
that is being ruined today?
As we have discussed
it is the planet
and the people being corrupted
by Satan's world.
But what is the earth
that will endure forever?
First, the planet.
As we have read,
the scriptures are clear
that it will last forever.
Next and most important,
the people.
The new earth.
Those for whom Jesus died
and who respond to the good news.
The recreation is coming.
Jesus will not waste
a single day of the thousand years.
Not one day of it.
He is determined to honor
Jehovah and accomplish
his purpose for the earth.
The future is not complicated.
Jehovah's purpose
is not hard to understand.
The coming time
of recreation will bring about
a rejuvenated earth,
a rejuvenated planet
filled with perfect people
who love and serve
Jehovah together.
That is the earth
that will endure forever.
We appreciate
that encouragement very much.
Thank you, Ken.
Another positive note.
Let's listen as our brother Mark Sanderson
speaks to us on the subject.
Share it with the generation
to come.
Mark, please.
At Matthew 13, verse 52,
Jesus said that every
public instructor
was like a man with a treasure store
filled with truths
old and new.
Well, we know that's true.
And if it's true,
it means that
this audience
are among the most rich people
in the entire world.
You have a large
treasure store of truths
both old
and new.
But here's the question.
What will you do
with your treasure store?
Now, a Deuteronomy,
chapter 29,
and verse 29,
he said,
the things concealed
belong to Jehovah our God.
But the things revealed
belong to us
and
to our descendants
forever
so that we may carry out
all the words
of this law.
Well, there's a
fundamental truth there.
We belong to us.
But rather, it also
belongs to our descendants
to all of our
sons and daughters who
are to come.
Well, that means that as men
and women of faith,
we have a clear
responsibility
to share, to pass on
the wonderful truths
that we have come to know
with the next generation.
Well, the Bible emphasizes this.
Let's read
that what the Psalmist said
in Psalm 78
and verse 3,
Psalm 78,
verse 3,
it says,
the things we have heard
and know which our fathers
have related to us,
we will not hide
from their sons.
We will relate to the generation
to come the praiseworthy deeds
and the wonderful things
that He has done.
Well, now,
this includes more
than just the basic truths.
It also includes all
of the wonderful things
that we've been taught
by other brothers and sisters.
All the experiences
that we've had
in experiencing the hand
of Jehovah in our own lives.
Well, Jehovah took the matter
of passing this on
to the next generation
very seriously,
because look at what it says in verse 5.
It says,
he established a reminder
in Jacob
and set a law
in Israel.
He commanded our forefathers
to make these things known
to their children
so that the next generation
the children yet to be
they in turn would relate them
to their children.
Well, brothers and sisters,
especially those of you
who have so much wisdom
and experience,
do you feel
that responsibility
to share what you have
with the generation to come?
Well, if we get the sense
of Deuteronomy 29-29
and Psalm 78,
well, then we will do this.
We will share what we have
with the next generation.
But how do we do it?
Well, of course, this process begins
with all of our parents.
And by their following
the command in Deuteronomy 6,
verses 6 and 7,
to teach their children
as they sit in the house,
as they walk on the road
when they lie down
and when they get up.
But the process
does not end
with the Christian parents.
We also have a
responsibility to teach
and train young adults
so that they can take
on responsibility
in Jehovah's congregation.
Now, the Bible
is filled with examples
of individuals who are wonderful trainers.
Maybe one who comes to mind
right away is Moses.
It seems that in the Bible
wherever you see Moses,
you see Joshua.
They're always together.
Can you imagine the wonderful training
that Moses was able to impart
to Joshua as they work
together for more than 40 years?
Moses not only told Joshua
but he also showed him.
And by being with him,
he was able to observe
his fine example.
Well, when the time was ready,
when Moses was ready
to hand over the responsibility,
notice what he says here
in Deuteronomy chapter 31
and verse 7.
It says Moses then called Joshua
and said to him before the eyes
of all Israel,
be courageous and strong
for you are the one
who will bring this people into the land
that Jehovah swore to their forefathers
to give to them
and you will give it to them
as an inheritance.
Jehovah is the one marching
before you and he will continue
with you.
He will neither desert you
nor abandon you.
Do not be afraid or be terrified.
Well, can you imagine
how Moses must have felt
to say those words to this young man
who he had worked so hard
all of these years with?
Well, that's not the only example
that's in the scriptures.
What about Paul and Timothy?
We know that Timothy was
probably in his late teens
or early 20s
when Paul met him at Listera.
What did Paul do?
He took that young man along with him
on his tours,
going from congregation to congregation.
He put him in mind
of his methods.
He taught him.
And as a result,
a solid, mature Christian man
who was able to strengthen
the congregations of God's people.
Do you remember what Paul said about him
in Philippians chapter 2?
It's quite a recommendation.
Philippians chapter 2
and verse 20.
Paul said, for I have no one else
of a disposition like his
who will genuinely care
for your concerns.
What a tremendous
recommendation.
But because Paul had invested that
time into Timothy,
he knew the fine qualities
that young man had.
Well, Paul not only wanted Timothy
to take that training himself,
but you'll recall
that in 2 Timothy chapter 2,
he gave advice to Timothy
as to what he was to do
with all of that fine training
that he had received.
2 Timothy chapter 2
and verse 2,
Paul said,
and the things you heard from me
that were supported by many witnesses,
these things
in trust to faithful men
who in turn
will be adequately qualified
to teach others.
So that training
would go on to future brothers
and future generations
of servants of Jehovah.
Paul invested training
in a very young man
and it paid off.
In our modern day,
I think of Brother Nathan Moore
as an outstanding trainer.
When he became the president
of the Watchtower Society
in January of 1942,
he was only 36 years old.
Now, he could have thought,
I'm so young.
I have many, many years ahead of me
to be able to care for matters.
And so there really isn't any need
to train others.
But Brother Nor did not have
that disposition.
He was a trainer
even at that young age.
He assigned Brother Milton Henshel
who was in his mid-twenties
to be his secretary.
Brother Nor took Brother Henshel
with him on his travels
all over the world to branches
and missionary homes
to strengthen the brothers.
He had him right by his side
at major conventions
not just telling him
but showing him
how to take the lead.
And Brother Henshel
absorbed that training.
By 1947,
he was a member of the board of directors
of the Watchtower Society,
only 27 years old.
And he went on to serve
as a member of the governing body.
Brother Nor trained other young brothers
like Don Adams.
This photo
that we're about to show
was taken at a gathering
on Brother Adams' 70th anniversary
in full-time service.
Now, here you see
a group of young men
who had trained Robert Wallen,
Charles Mollahan,
Davidson Claire,
and Don Adams.
All of these men were identified
when they were very young
and they worked together
for more than 50 years faithfully.
Jehovah helped Brother Nor
to choose very well.
But it didn't end there.
Brother Nor also appointed
well-qualified young brothers
who were gillied graduates
to assignments with great responsibility.
For example,
Brother Kenneth Little
was assigned to be the branch servant
in Canada when he was 34 years old.
Brother Denson Hopkinsven
was assigned as the branch servant
in the Philippines
when he was 33 years old.
And Brother Richard Kelsey
was assigned as the branch servant
in Germany
when he was 38.
When appointed,
Brother Kelsey said to Brother Nor,
but I'm only 38.
And Brother Nor said,
well, yeah, that's about the age I was
when I became president.
Brother Nor once again had chosen well.
Those last three brothers
are all still serving
on the branch committees
in their respective lands
and are all members
of the Watchtower Bible
and are tied in today for this meeting.
Isn't that wonderful?
But there's a lesson here, brothers.
There's a lesson.
Brother Nor expressed confidence
in humble young brothers.
He allowed them
to take on responsibility
and that proved to be
a wonderful blessing
for Jehovah's people.
Well, what's the lesson then
for elders,
for circuit overseers,
for all mature brothers
in the congregation?
We must actively
be training and teaching
the next generation
of ministerial servants,
of elders,
the next generation
of circuit overseers.
And we must take this responsibility
seriously.
Because the truth
belongs not just to us.
It also belongs to our sons
to our descendants.
We must pass on
the truth,
the wisdom,
the experience that we have
in our treasure store
to these next Joshua's,
these next Timothy's
that Jehovah will raise up.
But now that's the role
of the trainers.
What is the role
of you younger brothers
who are listening to this program?
Well, it's your responsibility
to work hard,
to meet the scriptural qualifications
for ministerial servants
and later for elders.
Seek out training.
Ask for advice.
Ask for counsel.
Be eager
to learn from older brothers
who are rich in wisdom
and experience.
Now, to help you grow
those brothers
who are rich in wisdom
and experience.
They may even correct you
from time to time.
Will you love them
for doing that?
Like Jacob,
who wrestled with an angel
to receive a blessing,
you too may have to wrestle.
You may have to struggle
at times to get that blessing,
to reach that goal.
But if you work hard
you will grow spiritually.
You will draw close to him
and who knows what
responsibilities
may come to you.
What is the governing body
doing to support efforts
to train young brothers?
Well, in January of this year
the governing body requested
all bodies of elders
worldwide
to give priority to helping
younger brothers grow
congregation
responsibilities.
Elders and circuit overseers
were reminded
that young brothers
who applied themselves
may qualify
as ministerial servants
in their late teens.
And that an exceptional
ministerial servant
who has gained experience
in shepherding and teaching
could serve as an elder
servant.
Now here is another
arrangement that we have
not publicly announced before
but we will today.
Circuit overseers have
also been informed
that they may invite
qualified young brothers
between the ages of 21
and 23
to apply to attend the
school for Kingdom
evangelizers.
But the efforts
do not end there.
Jehovah willing.
In January 2023
the School for Kingdom
evangelizers will again
begin functioning
in-person worldwide.
And as we resume
in-person regional conventions,
just imagine the joy
that we'll have
in seeing younger brothers
get up and give their first
talk at a regional convention.
Won't that be wonderful?
Are you looking forward to it?
But the governing body has
another new initiative.
The governing body members
will now have the possibility
to take a younger brother
along with them
when they make shepherding visits
to the branches.
And appointed governing body
helpers, who are headquarters
representatives,
when they make their branch
visits.
These arrangements
will allow many brothers
to receive additional training
directly
from governing body members
and helpers.
Well, what have we discussed
in this brief talk?
Jehovah has allowed us
to know the truth.
He's allowed us to be trained.
He's allowed us to gain wisdom
and helpers.
What now is our responsibility?
Well, let's read it
in Psalm 71, because the psalmist
put it so beautifully here.
Psalm 71 and verse 17.
Oh, God, you have taught me
from my youth.
And until now, I keep declaring
your wonderful works.
Even when I am old and gray,
oh, God, do not abandon me.
Let me tell the next generation
about your power
and about your mightiness
to all those who are to come.
Dear brothers, please,
let us work hard
to share the wonderful truths,
the experience,
the wisdom that we have gained
with the generation to come.
That certainly does
meet a need, doesn't it?
Very, very nice.
Thank you, Mark.
Now, how did you feel
during the pandemic
when you watched videos
on GW Broadcasting?
Of happy brothers and sisters
going from door to door
and doing artwork
and conducting Bible studies,
it made me kind of sad
because I wanted to do that too.
But we couldn't
go into the pandemic.
Well, now we have access
to all of our features
of the ministry.
So I don't think any of us
are going to be sad
when watching the next video.
It's going to trace the history
of our preaching activity
from 1919.
It's great.
One hundred years ago
when our brothers and sisters
were invited to the 1922
to be excited.
Why?
You see, just three years earlier,
they had been energized
by a newly organized approach
to preach the good news of the kingdom.
The Bible Students Convention
in 1919 launched
a door-to-door campaign
to obtain subscriptions
to the newly released
Golden Age magazine.
Later that year, a service director
was appointed for each group of Bible students.
Now they had clear direction
in following Jesus' command
to preach.
That convention was considered
by many who were there
to be the greatest ever help
up to that time.
So imagine their anticipation
when the announcement was made
of another convention
in 1922.
What would it bring?
Would there be other
exciting announcements?
A-D-B, A-D-B, A-D-B?
A-D-B?
What is A-D-B?
Many were guessing this,
guessing that.
Behold, the King reigns.
You are his publicity agents.
Therefore,
advertise,
advertise the King
and his kingdom.
Well, they want dry eyes
when he was crying.
Everybody was waving the
anxious and talking
to whoever was sitting
by with a new or not.
Now more than just Bible students,
they were becoming an organization
of preachers.
What would the call
to advertise the King
and his kingdom lead to?
What unique
and innovative methods
would Jehovah's people use?
The next 100 years would tell the story.
In 1922,
Jehovah Rutherford began using
the new technology of
radio broadcasting,
to reach a global audience
with the King the Message.
At its peak in 1933,
radio broadcast,
originating from our own
WBBR studios in New York
were carried by
408 radio stations
on six continents.
But because of clergy interference,
they actually denied access to their
ones.
Did opposition stop Jehovah's
people from advertising
the kingdom good news?
What additional preaching methods
were used?
A unified, consistent message
about the kingdom was achieved
through the use of
testimony cards in several languages.
A publisher would simply
hand the card to the householder
and ask him to read the
message.
Another exciting application
of technology was the use of
the portable phonograph
for house-to-house preaching.
To expand this initiative
in 1937 at the Columbus, Ohio convention,
the special pioneer work was
introduced.
Special pioneers were encouraged
to use the phonograph
not only when invited
into a house,
but at every house.
In addition,
three hundred special pioneers
set up the phonographs
over a half a million times.
Playing the pre-recorded
four and a half minute talks
by Brother Rutherford
to over one million listeners.
Other kingdom publishers
thus became phonograph-minded
and eventually over 47,000
portable phonographs
with records covering 92 topics
trumpeted the kingdom message.
To preach from the house-tops,
Zealous Kingdom publishers
amplify their ministry
with transcription machines
that broadcast Brother Rutherford's
full length pre-recorded lectures.
A transcription machine
was a phonograph equipped
with powered loudspeakers.
This made possible sound cars
and sound boats.
The kingdom message was
clearly heard on rivers,
on streets,
parks, and squares,
and rented halls,
theaters, and other public spaces.
Equipped with tracks,
booklets,
magazines and books,
thousands of volunteers
participated in special preaching
and literature distribution campaigns.
These special campaigns
made it possible to cover
large areas with the kingdom message
quickly, even in a face of opposition.
Streetwork,
information marches,
and bicycle parades
boldly brought the kingdom message
directly before the eyes of the public.
Marches ranged in size
from just a few publishers
to about a thousand publishers.
Streams of kingdom publishers
made their way
through the business districts
of large cities.
They wore placards
bearing a slogan,
carried signs,
to talk at a public meeting.
While radio broadcast
and information marches
were an efficient way
of reaching mass audiences,
was it the most effective way?
Our primary method of preaching,
the personal door
to door ministry,
has proved over time
to be the most effective method
of advertising the kingdom.
But was preaching all
that was needed?
That teaching others
to observe all the things
Jesus commanded
would require training.
Kingdom evangelizers
needed to be trained
to use the Bible effectively
and to study it
with interested ones.
So at the call to action assembly
in 1943,
a new congregation meeting
was announced and demonstrated.
It was called
soon textbooks
were released to help our brothers
cultivate their teaching skills.
The books Theocratic Aid
published in 1945
provided clear guidance
for improved public speaking,
effective door-to-door witnessing,
making meaningful return visits
and conducting progressive Bible studies.
While equipped for every good work,
released in 1946,
laid a solid foundation
of Bible truth through an in-depth
book by book examination
of God's Word.
Preachers were learning
to become teachers.
Such high-quality training
equipped more to join
the ranks of kingdom proclaimers.
And for those who were already
active, training allowed
them to expand their participation.
The ranks of kingdom publishers
swell.
Around the same time,
the Watchtower Bible School
of Gilea began training
kingdom proclaimers to take up
missionary work,
in lands where there were few
if any kingdom publishers.
In the years since,
thousands of trained missionaries
have advertised the king
in his kingdom to the ends of the earth.
Additionally, the teaching tools
provided by the faithful slave
have steadily adapted
to changing needs.
Study publications,
the truth that leads
to eternal life.
And now, enjoy life forever
and interactive Bible course
have proved to be extremely
effective teaching tools.
Huge
international conventions
with record-breaking
attendences have generated
global headlines
advertising Jehovah's
organization.
Films, DVDs,
and JW Broadcasting
videos have helped
prospective subjects of the kingdom
visualize the realities
of that kingdom.
Our special metropolitan witnessing
and public witnessing carts
continue to draw attention to the kingdom.
JW.org has played a vital role
in reaching millions
with the kingdom proclamation
in over a thousand languages.
How true are the words
of Melvin Sargent,
one of many faithful brothers
who have experienced
much of this history.
Those of us inside
the Lord's organization
have tried
in every way possible
to turn the world's attention
to the message of life.
We have used slogans,
full-page advertisements,
radio,
sound cars,
portable phonographs,
gigantic conventions,
and a growing army
of house-to-house ministers.
This brief report
on the past 100 years
of kingdom preaching merely
scratches the surface
of what's contained in the new
special exhibit
at the World Headquarters Museum
at Warwick, New York.
It's entitled Advertise,
Advertise, Advertise,
100 years of
advertising the kingdom.
When visits become
possible, please come
and see this informative
and motivating display.
How thrilling it is
that alongside our brothers
and sisters of the past 100 years,
we have shared together
and fulfilling Jesus' prophecy
that this good news of the kingdom
will be preached
in all the inhabited earth.
May this new special exhibit
energize you to continue
in the future.
What does it mean
to advertise?
Advertise, Advertise,
the king and his kingdom?
Well, that video was just
the ticket, wasn't it?
Because we're resuming our
door-to-door ministry now,
and so this gets us all enthusiastic
ready to go on service.
I'm sure you're
already to go on service now.
But don't leave just yet
because we have one final talk.
Brother Lent always has
something interesting to tell us.
No pressure, Steve.
And he's got a very
intriguing theme.
Why must all kiss
God's Son?
In four of his letters,
the Apostle Paul encouraged
fellow Christians
to greet one another
with a holy kiss.
Similarly, Peter used
the expression,
greet one another
with a kiss of love.
Now, why was that encouragement given?
Because giving a kiss
was a token of affection,
honor, or peace.
Well, in a similar vein,
notice what Jehovah
commands us to do.
In Psalm 2, please.
Go to the second Psalm,
and let's read verse 12.
Jehovah says, honor,
or if you look at the footnote,
literally, kiss.
Kiss the Son
or God will become
indignant
and you will perish from the way.
For his,
Jehovah's anger
flares up quickly.
You notice, Jehovah
doesn't present this
as an option, does he?
He didn't say, I recommend,
I suggest you kiss my son.
It's actually presented
as a decree,
a powerful statement,
indeed, and Jehovah takes it
very personal,
whether we warmly, affectionately,
welcome his son,
or not, see.
Those who do not do so,
do not kiss the son,
warmly welcome him,
will perish
as result of Jehovah's anger.
Or put another way
such ones
will meet God.
Now, let's talk about this
just for a little bit.
The Israelites, because they were so disobedient,
were warned
by Jehovah through Amos,
the prophet, at Amos 4-12,
get ready
to meet your God.
Now, that expression
reminds me
when I was a young teenager
in the southern part of the United States,
along the highways,
we would often see
religious billboards.
And a common sign read,
are you ready to meet God?
And it was supposed to be based
on Amos 4-12.
Now, we ask,
and it was explained to us,
that the meaning was,
are you ready to go to heaven,
meet God face to face
and thereafter live in heaven?
Or meet was being used
with a favorable connotation.
But as we indicated,
that's not the meaning of
Amos 4-12.
Not get ready to introduce yourself
to God in a friendly way.
Far from it.
Jehovah through Amos
was warning those disobedient Israelites
they were going to meet God
by means of a head-on collision.
It was going to be similar
to a little ant walking in a train rail
walking south being met
by locomotive coming north.
That's what the Israelites
would experience.
And sure enough,
as Jehovah warned,
some years later,
the Israelites met God
when they received his adverse judgment
when a Syria conquered
and devastated them.
But here's a question,
what get ready to meet your
God message is being
sounded by God's people today?
Well, it's true,
we sound the good news
of the kingdom.
But we also sound a warning message,
don't we?
We warn that all who do not
take a stand with Jehovah
and walk with him
but continue to walk in opposition
will meet him in a head-on
collision.
And here's another question,
what will happen in the near future
and we've learned during the great tribulation
to the tone,
the tenor
of our get ready
to meet your God warning message?
Well, for the answer,
let's go to Revelation chapter 16.
Revelation chapter 16
and please,
let's read verse 21,
then great hailstones,
each about the weight of a talent
fell from heaven on the people
and the people
blaspheme God
because of the plague of hell
for the plague
was unusually great.
Well, our publications have explained
that of course right now
we take the soft waters
of truth to people
encouraging them to turn to Jehovah.
But soon during the great tribulation
the tone,
the tenor
will turn hard.
It will announce the imminent end
of Satan's entire wicked system.
The soft waters of truth
will congeal
to become the hard
hitting hailstones
of truth.
And this message will be so powerful
that as indicated there
in that scripture we read that
the people
will blaspheme God.
They will be very upset.
They will be very disturbed
and it's likened
to a great hailstone
with every hailstone
a great hailstorm I should say
weighing about a talent.
Now, the Revelation
climax book said
if the Apostle John had in mind
the Greek talent
was about 45 pounds.
Some years ago interestingly
there was a little article
or a little account
in the watchtower
about egg-sized hail
falling in China
and killing 25 people
and wounding 200 additional people.
Now, think about it.
If hailstones weighing only
ounces could do that
what about 45 pound
hailstones
and especially if you factor
in how fast they fall?
Experts say a large hailstone
can fall at speeds
faster than 100 miles an hour.
And interestingly
not long ago the watchtower
made the comment that it could
well be that our hailstone
message that we're commissioned
to give will be what
induce this Gorg
of May Gorg
to make his all-out attack
against Jehovah's people
with the intention of wiping
them from the earth.
And of course we know the attack of Gorg
is the event
that will enrage Jehovah
and move him
to bring on the rescue operation
of Armageddon.
But right now we're still
in the Kiss God Sun
and time period.
We're happy about that right?
But don't get too comfortable
with that message either.
We entreat honest
hearted ones
to honor Gorg Sun.
To warmly welcome him
as Earth's new ruler
and we do this urgently don't we?
During the time
before that hard
hitting get ready to meet your
time period
arrives.
But now here's a very important
question.
Are we motivated
to kiss God's son
only because we don't want
to experience the adverse
consequences of not doing so?
No.
Our main motivator
is love isn't it?
We love Jehovah
and we love his dear son
Earth's new ruler.
That love is what mainly
motivates us to do so
to kiss welcome God's son
and of course we want to help
honest hearted ones as we teach them
to likewise kiss God's son
because they are
motivated by love.
But Jesus
is Jehovah's choice isn't he?
Jehovah has selected him
has installed him as
King of the Kingdom
and he will be the absolute
best ruler that humans
could ever have.
Why? What will make Jesus
the very best ruler?
Well one thing, he will have
superhuman abilities.
And he will demonstrate
he will have these
during his thousand year reign
it will make him a wonderful
very loving ruler.
In fact, let's identify
six superhuman abilities
that Jesus will possess
and demonstrate
during his wonderful thousand year
reign.
And to identify each of these six
superhuman abilities
we are going to use a miracle
that Jesus performed here on the earth
because we know
the earthly miracles
portend foreshadow
even greater miracles
during his time as
Messianic King.
And let's identify
superhuman ability number one.
Mark chapter four
verse 37
now a great, violent
windstorm broke out
and the waves kept crashing
into the boat
so that the boat was
close to being swamped
but he, Jesus, was in
the stern
of being on the pillow
so they woke him up
and he said to him,
teacher,
do you not care that we're about
to perish?
With that he got up
and rebuked the wind
and said to the sea,
hush, be quiet
and the wind abated
and a great calm
set in.
Now you notice
with a double adjective
great, violent windstorm
indicating its ferocity
but with three
simple words, hush,
be quiet.
Jesus completely calm both
wind and sea
but now what is that miracle
portend for the future?
Well as Messianic King
Jesus will have the
power to command and
control the wind,
to see
actually all forces of nature
to mankind's benefit.
Under Kingdom rule
there will be no
destructive tsunamis,
hurricanes, tornadoes,
floods, earthquakes,
etc., etc.
But now let's identify
superhuman ability number two
and to do this just think
about the account if you will
in Matthew chapter 14.
If you recall
with just five
loads of bread,
two little fish,
Jesus fed a crowd
likely of over 10,000 people.
If you factor in the women
and children
and every one of them
ate to complete
satisfaction,
while they even gathered up
12 baskets full of
fragments as leftovers.
Well what do we learn
from this miracle?
Jesus, as Messianic King,
will exercise authority
over the organic
elements in food and vegetation.
Ensuring that no one
under his rule ever
goes hungry,
is estimated right now
more than 800 million people
go to bed at night hungry.
That number
will be reduced
to zero
under Kingdom rule.
No one will have to go
to bed hungry at night.
So I'm 72-16
there will be an abundance of grain
on the earth. On the top
of the mountains,
it will overflow.
And it won't be just basics.
Isaiah 25-6,
Jehovah of armies will make
for all the peoples
that means nobody left out
all the peoples
a banquet
of rich dishes,
of fine wine
filtered wine.
Now we're not talking about
Ripple Thunderbird wine yet.
We're talking about fine wine.
Like Jesus made
at that wedding feast
in Canaan.
But now, let's identify
superhuman ability number three.
Go please to Matthew chapter 15.
Matthew 15.
And let's read
please verse number 30.
Then large crowds
approached him
bringing along people
who were lame,
maimed, blind,
speechless,
and many others.
And they laid them at his feet
and he cured them.
No, this was amazing, wasn't it?
But what did these healing
miracles portend
for Jesus as Messianic
King? Well,
he will have the power
and the authority
to heal all
sicknesses
and maladies. See,
any sickness, any malady
he will heal. Under Kingdom rule
as promised at Isaiah 33-24,
no resident,
not one
will say, I am sick.
In fact, Jesus will
even have the power to put the human aging process
into reverse
with ones becoming
young physically.
Do you recall this video clip
it was shown at a convention
some years ago
and we're not seeing
in this portion of this video
a fantasy.
We're looking at
reality.
In fact, one brother said, can you imagine
getting up in the morning,
put your glasses on,
you can't see anything.
Everything's blurry.
You take them off.
Now you can see beautifully.
Not fantasy.
We're talking about reality
in Jehovah's New World.
But now let's identify
the superhuman ability number four.
And to do this, just think if you will
of the account in Mark chapter five.
If you recall,
very sadly,
heart wrenchingly,
a little 12-year-old girl
had died.
But what did Jesus do?
The account tells us he took her hand
and said,
little girl, I say to you,
get up.
That girl who had been dead
immediately rose
and began walking.
Well, what future
accomplishment is signified
by this miracle?
Well, Jesus and his 144,000
associate kings
will have the power
to completely empty
the grave,
the common grave of dead mankind
by means of the resurrection.
And then, according
to Revelation chapter 20 verse 14,
the empty grave
will be thrown into the
symbolic lake of fire.
It will be abolished
forever, never again
to receive another
occupant.
Well, as isolate superhuman
ability number five,
Matthew chapter nine, please.
Turn there.
Matthew chapter nine.
And let's read beginning in verse number three.
Matthew nine verse three.
Now, certain scribes
said to themselves,
this fellow is blaspheming.
Jesus, knowing
their thought said,
why are you thinking
wicked things in your hearts?
So notice, Jesus could
read hearts
there as a perfect human.
What about his Messianic king?
Even more so.
He in 144,000
will be able to read hearts.
And that means what?
They will be able to perfectly
judge mankind
with absolutely
no mistakes.
Amazing indeed.
Well, let's determine one more
a six superhuman
miraculous ability
that Jesus will possess
and demonstrate.
And we're going to do this.
Let's go to Matthew chapter eight.
Just back a little bit from where you were there.
Matthew eight
and verse number 16.
But after it that came
evening, people
brought him
many demon possessed
ones.
And he expelled the demons
with a word.
And he cured all who were suffering.
So notice,
rather than risk a decisive
test of the power that was back in Jesus,
the demons obeyed his command
to release these people
that they were possessing.
Well, what do we learn from this?
What is this prefigure?
Jesus and the 144,000
will have the power
to act
against Satan
and his demons.
Because Jesus even granted
on the earth his disciples
that same authority didn't he?
They were able to expel demons.
The power even more so.
To take action against Satan
and his demons.
At the end of the thousand year
or the end of the great tribulation,
I should say first,
they will abyss them.
Then at the end of the final test
at the end of the thousand years,
Jesus joined
by the secondary seed
of Abraham
as promised at Genesis 3.15.
Jesus
will crush
the ugliest head
in the universe.
Satan's head.
And he will crush
the second ugliest heads in the universe,
the heads of the demons.
What a tremendous accomplishment
in vindication
of Jehovah's name and sovereignty
that will be.
Well, there we have six
marvelous miraculous
superhuman abilities
that Jesus will possess
an exercise during his reign.
Human rulers,
if we think about it,
couldn't even dream
to ever possess
even one of those superhuman
abilities.
But Jesus will be able to one
command and control the forces
of nature
to the benefit of all humans.
Two, exercise authority
over food and vegetation
ensuring that no one ever
goes hungry.
Three, possess the power to heal all
sicknesses and malities.
Four, have the capability
to completely empty the grave
by means
of the resurrection.
Five, possess
the ability to perfectly
judge humans
with absolutely no mistakes.
Number six,
be empowered
to act against satan
and his demons.
And if you think about it,
the four going
are only a few examples
of the superhuman royal power
that Jesus will possess
as Messianic king.
No wonder
he's Jehovah's choice.
And no wonder
Jehovah has issued the decree
that all, not optional,
all must kiss
his son.
Now, it's true,
a kiss can be hypocritical,
can it?
You know,
Absalom gave out many
probably better say,
gave off many hypocritical kisses.
He was kissing everybody,
wasn't he?
hypocritical.
We read the account
Treacher's Joab,
hypocritically kissed Amesa
and by means of a disgusting
hypocritical, quote,
tender kiss
Judas betrayed Jesus.
But brothers and sisters,
our kiss of Jesus
is not hypocritical.
From the bottom of our heart
by our conduct,
by our words,
we warmly welcome
Jehovah's choice, don't we?
We're so happy,
about this, that he is already
installed as king,
and he will soon be the ruler
for all the earth.
And we want to help honest hearted ones
to likewise,
sincerely, affectionately,
kiss welcome God's son.
We do this urgently
during the limited
window of time,
during this kiss God's son
invitation time period.
Before,
time period arrives
when ones will be told
get ready to meet
your God.
Of course, sadly,
as we know the vast majority,
especially the rulers,
will adamantly continue
to do so.
But we are not like them
because these ones,
the anger of Jehovah and Jesus
will blaze against them.
But made Jehovah richly
dear brothers and sisters,
as you continue
to affectionately,
warmly welcome
Jehovah's choice,
and as you work hard
to help other honest hearted ones
to do the same.
Well, that was very
encouraging, wasn't it?
And I think we can say
that Jehovah has been very good
to us today.
Jehovah has given us the
encouragement that
we've all desperately needed.
And so if you felt encouraged
by this program,
thank Jehovah for it.
And we're also grateful,
not only to the brothers
who have presented parts on the program,
but we think of the many
who worked tirelessly
behind the scenes,
preparing all those videos.
As I was watching all that,
I was thinking what a
great way to do it.
But yet,
how can you replace a video?
The vision,
the visibility of it,
it just makes so much more
meaningful for us.
So we're grateful for the brothers
who do all of this work.
Jehovah never disappoints.
Throughout this annual meeting program,
we've seen how he instructs us
personally,
cares for us during crises,
and satisfies us
with meaningful work.
How fitting it is then
that the year text for 2023
praises the God
whose actions and words
are the essence of truth.
Before we conclude,
let's go to Bangladesh.
A land filled with
unique features.
It has the largest
contiguous mangrove forest
in the world,
dreaming with interesting creatures.
The plant life is amazing as well.
Bangladesh is also home
to Jackfruit.
This sweet, nutritious treat
is the world's largest fruit
grown on trees.
One piece of fruit
can weigh over 40 pounds
or 18 kilograms.
Three rivers,
the Jamuna,
the Potta,
and the Magna,
combined to form
the world's largest river delta.
Here along the bay
lies much of the country's
population,
who depend on its rich resources
for survival.
Spiritually speaking,
the land is also full of potential.
Bengali is the seventh most spoken
language in the world.
There's a ratio of more than
half a million people
published here.
Among those answering the call
to preach are zealous young ones.
They skillfully use the Bible
to show how it promises relief.
They put to full use
the recently released Bengali edition
of the New World Translation
of the Christian Greek Scriptures.
These young ones
also love to encourage
their brothers and sisters
with song and dance
and drawings of Jehovah's creation,
such as the Native Bengal Tiger.
It's wonderful
when a congregation
that's so diverse in age,
ethnicity, and background
can worship, eat,
and play together.
The Shadjapur congregation
is just such a group.
And it's 69 publishers
warmly say to you all,
Amra Apnadar Parloboshi,
which means we love you.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah's Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.